---
layout: default
title: Victoria Catterson
description: "Highlights of my data science projects"
---

# Portfolio

## [Wave height forecasting for offshore access][waveheight]

Engineers need to periodically access offshore wind turbines to perform maintenance. This work developed a suite of wave height forecasters to predict whether waves will stay below the access limit, and an improved metric for assessing the strength of a forecaster.

[waveheight]:   /portfolio/waveheight.html

## [Predicting remaining life of transformers][transformers]

Transformers are the most expensive components of power networks. This
research resulted in a probabilistic model for predicting remaining
transformer life, based on the ambient conditions it operates in. This can
be used to speculate about the effects of emergency overloading, as well as
predicting normal behaviour.

[transformers]: /portfolio/transformers.html

## [Defect diagnosis using deep neural nets][dnns]

Insulation is used in all electrical equipment to prevent short-circuit
faults. This work improved the accuracy of diagnosis of insulation defects
by using a deep approach, and led to insights about the features learned by
the deep network compared to typical engineered features.

[dnns]:         /portfolio/dnns.html

## [Identifying harmonics from condition data][harmonics]

The data used to diagnose insulation defects can be distorted by harmonics
on the power network. This research proposed an alternative to expensive
harmonic monitoring, by diagnosing the presence of harmonics from the same
condition data. This gives a clearer picture of equipment health, by
separating harmonic effects from defect effects.

[harmonics]:    /portfolio/harmonics.html

## [Detecting anomalous transformer behaviour][cad]

Older transformers develop a signature pattern of behaviour that is specific
to each one. Anomaly detection is more useful than diagnostics as
transformers age, since it's more important to spot changes in behaviour
than to repeatedly classify minor problems. This work applied Conditional
Anomaly Detection to keep two transformers in service for 18 months, while
minimising false positives.

[cad]:          /portfolio/cad.html

## [Authored a book chapter on data analytics][sghandbook]

I was asked to contribute to the forthcoming [Smart Grid
Handbook][sghandbook] by writing a chapter on "Data Analytics for
Transmission and Distribution". I drew on my experience of developing and
deploying data analytics in this field to highlight the increasing role that
online analytics can play, and some key factors that led to the success of
each case study.

[sghandbook]:   http://eu.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-1118755480.html

